Incoming lectures we are going to use deep learning and LSD architecture in order to forecast stock
prices.
So first of all let's talk a bit about the difference between time series analyzes and a deep learning
approach as far as time series analyzes is concerned.
We have quite complex models.
So there's the random Valke model as the basis of Time series analyzes data we can do a bit better with
our two regressive or moving average models.
We are able to combine these models in order to end up with the out or aggressive moving average model.
Dan RBD better approach is the so called out or aggressive integrated moving average model.
And we are able to combine it.
We'd better whiskers stick more tools in order to account for the volatility clustering.
Okay so these are the arch and Gottsch models combining these motiveless.
So every memorial we digitalize out or aggressive hetero's scholastic model is working quite fine on
the 4 X or when we try to predict stock prices.
So what's very important that for time series analyzes we have quite complex modals with underlying
parameters such as the volatility and so on the huge advantage of Time series analyzes methods that
they can deal with volatility clustering and that's why they are working quite fine during crisis.
So for example if we take a look at the Dow Jones Index focusing on the 2008 financial crisis as you
can see there's been a huge volatility clustering here.
What does it mean that volatility had a huge variance here.
Volatility is approximately constant but here volatility has been changed a lot.
And with the cap of time series analyze these methods for example of the combined Arima Gottsch model
we are able to make good predictions even in these situations.
So for example the 2008 financial crisis or for example at the beginning of 2018 there's been a huge
volatility clustering as far as S&P 500 is concerned.
As you can see there's a huge volatility clustering here in this region.
There has been little changes as far as the price and the value of S&P 500 is concerned.
So volatility is approximately constant.
But here in this region there's been a huge volatility clustering and a time series analyze these related
methods are working fine in this situation only or our hand deep learning and SDMI architecture is a
black box model.
So there are no underlying parameters to learn.
We just care about the relationships between the features and in this case the features are the possed
stock prices.
So it is working fine in the main but not during the crisis.
A good algorithmic trading strategy is to combine both time theories analyze his methods and deep learning
methods.
By the way combining assets is the best way to go as far as I am concerned.
For example back it's model or statistical arbitrage approaches are working extremely fine.
So I'm a huge fan of market neutral strategies.
If you search for LTE CMS so long term capital management you can take a look at the Sharpe ratio the
Sharpe ratio has something to do with the risk and return.
As you can see out his was quite successful they were making lots of lots of money.
We are happy of combining assets such as Blackshaw is moral or statistical arbitrage.
So that's why in my opinion it is the best way to go.
Anyways in the coming lectures we are going to use deep learning and SDM architecture in order to predict
stock prices.
OK so in this chart we have time and we have the price of the store denoted by asty.
So we just have to construct the training data set.
For example we are going to use 40 features.
So basically 40 stock prices in the past and price tomorrow is going to be the target variable.
So the training means that we use an Alice D.M. architecture in order to detach the relationships between
these 40 features.
So between the prices in the past and as far as the production is concerned we have a 40 features.
So basically the price is in the past and we would like to make a prediction as far as price to morrow
is concern.
So you may pose the question that how to construct the training data set.
We just have to use a given window in this case we have three features.
So three stock prices in the past and we have a single target voluble the stock price tomorrow.
OK then we have to shift the window one step to the right.
And again we had three features so Street stock prices in the past and the stock price tomorrow.
Again we have to shift to the window and we have to use these street stock prices in the past.
And a single target we're triable and so on.
This is how we construct the training data set out of historical data.
And why is it good.
Because if we want to predict the stock price tomorrow we just have to use the previous stock prices.
So these are stock prices in the past and we are able to predict the stock price tomorrow based on these
long short term memory architecture.
So this is what we are going to implement in the coming lectures.
Thanks for watching.